we want to design a circuit
that will behave like this we have four
states state zero
zero your output is one here for this
state
this is zero one your output is zero
this is one zero your output is one
and this is i should lower this one one
your output
is zero let me lower these just a little
bit just this one
give me more space zero one
your output is zero and if you put a
zero
you wanna stay there
if you put a one
you're gonna go down to this one if your
input is one
if your input is zero you go right here
if your input is one you go right here
if your input is zero you stay right
here
if your input is one you go right there
if your input is zero from here you go
right there if your input is one you go
right here
i want to build this circuit
what's the bottom line one
if you put a one there
and we'll decide maybe i'll use jk for
this flip i want to build the circuit
that will behave like this i have four
states
zero zero zero one one zero one one
and i have an output either one or zero
i see the output and there's my input
since i have four states
two to the power of the number of
flip-flops number
of flip-flops
has to be greater than or equal to the
number of states
so that will tell us how many flip flops
we're going to use
how many states do i have here 4
so 2 to what power
is going to make it greater than or
equal to 4 2.
so i will need two flip flops
and i'm going to use jk no reason i just
first that came to my mind jake here
because i looked that sheet was right in
front of me
that's how i use jk for that
so to design that i have to draw
the table and see where my options are
so before we get to that
we have q1 which is state 1 and q2
state 2. not like state one
two digits you know this and that this
is one and two
see them one and two one and two one and
two that's what i meant by
q1 q2 if it's zero zero we're talking
about that state
you also have what one
input and that's what you want to call
it x
so this is the input here
this is the current states
q1 q2 are the current states this is x
my input
my output is the next states
what is q1 asterisk
and q2 asterisk
also says z is my output
is it zero or one you can see that zero
one
zero these are the outputs
now if i am at state zero zero
and my input is zero according to this
picture what happened
you are still there your next state
right
and you have an output yes one
but if i am at state 0 0
and my input is one
where do you go to one
zero is there an output there
one
if i am at state 0 1
and my input is 0 0 1 and 0
you go where to 0 zero what's your
output one
if i'm at this state and i put a one
zero one
and my input is one i'm gonna go to one
zero my output is one
if i'm state one zero
and my input is zero one zero i put a
zero i stay there
my output is one
if i'm a one zero and i put a one
one zero you put a one where do you go
to one one and there's no output
if i'm state 1 1
and my input is zero see it's zero
you go to zero zero your output is one
if i'm at one one my input is one right
here
you go to zero one and your output is
zero
that's the truth table for it
well i'm going to use jk of flip-flops
hmm
i need to take another look at the jk
flip-flop
because what i need to do now figure out
what do i need to connect to the j
because this is what my current state
this one my next state
what is j and k should be to go from
here to there
so let me take a look back at the jk
flip-flop let me hold the sheet of paper
for a second
this can stay here let me write the jk
flip-flop on a clean sheet
q
and this is the q next
i'm looking at that table zero zero zero
that's a zero
zero zero one that's a one
zero one zero that's a zero
zero one one that's a zero
one zero zero
that's a one one zero
one that's a one
one one zero that's a one
and one one one that's a zero
now i want to look backward to go from
zero to zero
hmm let me just throw a line so i know
which one is which
from zero to zero i see that right here
cm that's the current state that's the
next state
it looks like it the only way that will
happen
let's see what j and k should be
from zero to zero you could have zero
zero that'll keep it there or what
or zero one
which means what as long as
j is zero and who cares what k is
as long as j is zero and who cares what
k is
i will go from zero to zero
you can see the two cases right here and
right here
this is the current state that's the
next state the current state that's the
next state when you had zero zero you
got that
when you got zero one you got that so as
long as you have a zero for j
and it's really up to you you can make
it a zero or a one it doesn't matter
that'll keep me from zero to zero
the next group let me look at a
different color
i wanna go from zero to one let's find
out where the zero two one is
zero to one i see one here you see it
and i see one here this is q and that's
the next state
q on the next state
it looks like it what 1 0 will do it
or 1 1 will do it so as long as j
is 1 and who cares what k is
next let me do
the one to zero where's the one to zero
that's this case
in this case cm the two in red
zero one will do it one one will do it
isn't that don't care in one
and the last one
it's one two one
one two one that's this and that
zero and zero will do it
one and zero will do it don't care and
zero
now bring this one back
here's the first flip-flop let me take a
look at it
so let's look at this one
and compare it to that one that's the
current state that's the next
state so let's see what is
this is j and k now what is j1
and k1 should be zero to zero let's look
right here
zero to zero zero and don't care
zero to one one and don't care
one to one don't care in zero one to one
don't care in zero
one to zero don't care on one
and one to zero don't care in one
now i'm going to do another one for the
second flip-flop j2
and k2 and that's what i was looking for
my marker the different color
i don't have it so i'll just do this
look right here
and compare it to this one it's easy to
lose track where you're looking
i need to slide it down because i have
to look at that table
zero to zero
zero and don't care
zero to zero zero and donkey
huh because it doesn't matter if it's
one or zero
one to zero don't care in one
zero to zero don't care and i mean zero
and don't care
zero two one one and don't care
one to zero don't care on one
and one two one don't care and zero
now i'm ready to design them
i'm ready to build my circuit
i just got to do a truth uh k map for
this
k map for this k map for this
k map for that build it ready to go
we got time
so let's do a k-map
k-map for the first one we'll do j1 then
we'll do k1 then j2 and k2 well you know
let me save that nice sheet
so a kml j1 k1
we have three inputs
q1 q2 and x
this is for j1
we have one for k one
we have one for j2
k2
and let's go back and fill them in
j1 0
1 that's the j
0 1 0 1
don't care don't care don't care don't
care
k1 don't care don't care don't care
don't care for them
zero zero one one
j two zero zero
don't care don't care zero one don't
care don't care
so zero zero don't care don't care
zero one don't care don't care
k2 don't care don't care
one one don't care don't care
one zero
and let's read each one then we'll build
it
since i'm only have to group the ones so
if i take these four ones together
better than just taking two ones
and that'll be what x
this one here
take that together what do you have q2
this one
that'll be what q1x
that'll be what q2 plus
if i group these guys together
x i could just took this one with this
x naught yeah
the last one i could just group the
zeros here
you know i could take this with that
group the zero now give me the same
thing
x is one you complement it and
q
if i take these two will be q one not
so that's q1 oh i read the first one
wrong right
here that should be q1 not isn't it for
the first group
that's q1 not it's a zero complement
and this one is x complement
if you took by the way these two here if
you group these two if you decide to go
group the zeros because you can take
these two what do you have
q1 being one so you complement that or
x complement same thing
so now i'm almost ready for my flip-flop
i got to build it bring the flip-flops i
need two of them
so where is that sheet of paper that i
saved
here we go
oh i need to make one also for the
output which i forgot to make
another k-map for the output to see when
do you get a candy when you don't get a
candy
this is for z one one
one one one zero
one zero if we just group the zeros the
same thing
that'll be what q one naught or
x naught
that happens to be the same thing
as one of the gates we just did q1
plus x naught
and now i just got to build them connect
them now i'm ready to go
i have a ruler
now i gotta build them i have two
flip-flops j and k
we're using right j and k there we go
there's one of them
i don't know why i'm using lined paper i
should be on the line
but i'm not
that's the second flip-flop i can put
them one after the other i can put them
next to each other really doesn't matter
i'm putting them like next to each other
on top of each other i could have put
them one after the other to get the
first digit in the second digit
we just run wires to the light anyway
this is
jk number one
this is jk number two
that means this is q1
and this is q1 not
this is q2
and this is q2 not
this is j for the first one we'll call
it j1
this is k for the other one
i mean for the same one k1 this is j4
this one j2 this is k
which is k2 we might have a clock here
i don't know how the clock is on the
falling edge rising edge doesn't really
matter
so it depends on how they come so
there'll be a clock running this way
to make sure they're in sync not one
going up one down different times
doesn't make any sense we have to make
sure that they work with the clock
together
so this is the clock c l k clock
so they'll be synced together they rise
at the same time they fall at the same
time
now let's look at j1
what are you gonna attach to it
just x we have an external input x we
have a switch you and i gonna be
flipping in the lab
that's the only input we have is that
switch one input
when you look at this we have three
inputs
q1 q2 these are these i don't control
them these
i only control that switch the external
switch it's either zero or one
so now i'm going to have x my switch
here and that's what j1 is attached to
x to that switch
k1 is attached to what
q2 right so i'm going to take the output
of this
feed it to this one
i'll just go diagonal here
run a wire there
and that's what k1
just i mean k1 is whatever this you just
run a wire from here to there
j2 has to be an and gate with q1 and x
an and gate
with q1 and x
let me push it back just a little bit x
so you're going to take an input from
here
right there feed it through this
and the other one from q1
take one wrap it around here wire
another wire
that's j2
what's q2 i mean k2
q1 not an x naught it's an or gate
q1 not an x naught this is x
q1 not that's this guy right here
so i gotta run another wire
all the way around
bring it down this way
and feed it all the way down
and the other one i'm going to take one
from x here
put a knot on it
and feed it to this one
and in the lab just if it's working you
take q1 to one of the leds here you take
q2 to the other led and you watch them
to see as you're playing with
x look at the state where you are see if
it's doing what it's supposed to do
and you also need to have one for your
output x
and your output x happens to be q one
naught plus
x naught which is this gate
so this is my x my output if it's candy
whatever is soda
cigarettes whatever the case is
that's z your output
same gate
and this circuit will do actually what
that diagram that you saw there
so your output is controlled by only
this switch that you have here you're
just playing with it
and whatever the current state is
now before you start anything maybe you
want to make these guys zero maybe you
want to clear them
you tap the clear key first make it zero
then you move it back to one it makes
this one zero
you hit a zero move it back to when it
makes that one zero you can start with
that
then you start playing with it and see
what will happen